9. What is save Point? How to create a save Point write a Query?
Certainly! Let’s dive into the concept of SAVEPOINT in SQL and explore how to create and use it.

What is a SAVEPOINT?
A SAVEPOINT is a mechanism within a transaction that allows you to create a point to which you can later roll back.
It’s particularly useful when you want to implement partial rollbacks in case of errors or exceptional conditions within a transaction.
Why Use SAVEPOINT?
Nested Transactions: SAVEPOINT allows you to create nested transactions within a larger transaction. This is helpful when you have multiple steps, and you want to handle errors at a more fine-grained level.
Partial Rollback: It provides the ability to roll back to a specific point within a transaction without affecting the entire transaction. If only a portion of the transaction encounters an error, you can revert to a known good state.
Error Handling: SAVEPOINT can be used for better error handling. If an error occurs, you can roll back to a savepoint, handle the error, and possibly continue or retry the transaction.
Syntax for Creating a SAVEPOINT:
The basic syntax for creating a SAVEPOINT is as follows:
SAVEPOINT savepoint_name;
Here, savepoint_name is the name you assign to the savepoint. You can choose any valid identifier as the savepoint name.
Example: 
Let’s say we’re working with a transaction involving an “Orders” table. Here’s how you can use SAVEPOINT:
START TRANSACTION; -- Begin the transaction

-- Perform some SQL operations
INSERT INTO Orders (order_id, amount) VALUES (101, 500);
INSERT INTO Orders (order_id, amount) VALUES (102, 700);

SAVEPOINT my_savepoint; -- Create a savepoint

-- Perform more SQL operations
UPDATE Orders SET amount = 600 WHERE order_id = 101;

-- If an error occurs, you can roll back to the savepoint
ROLLBACK TO my_savepoint;

-- Continue with the transaction or commit
COMMIT;
In this example:
We start a transaction.
Insert two orders.
Create a savepoint called “my_savepoint.”
Update the amount for order 101.
If an error occurs, we can roll back to the savepoint, undoing the changes made after it.
Notes:
SAVEPOINT is generally used in conjunction with the ROLLBACK TO statement.
If you want to roll back the entire transaction, you can use ROLLBACK without specifying a savepoint.
Savepoints are only applicable within the scope of a transaction.
Once the transaction is committed, the savepoints are automatically released.